hello everyone so today I thought I'd
tell you the story of my cambridge
interview so somehow it was actually two
years ago now I'm now a student at Jesus
College Cambridge studying Natural
Sciences it's quite an interesting story
it's not all plain sailing if you're
preparing for an interview right now
they are throwing some tips for you too
so here is my advice for any Cambridge
or Oxford interviews and the experience
that I had so I had had a disastrous
admissions assessment I thought it went
terribly I came out the admissions
assessment and was literally so so down
when I got email through inviting me to
interview I was like what I was like so
happy I was acting as if I'd been
offered a place really I've just been
invited to interview and here we have
the interview email that I received it
said dear Paige I am writing to invite
you to come to the college for interview
as follows and then I have my two
interviews and had the names of my
interviewers that was all much
excitement and then I was like wait I've
got to prepare for these interviews now
what do I do
so my tutor at my Sixth Form College
said don't worry too much about
preparing for interviews he was like
don't over prepare but it might be good
to try out a few more interview
questions as for Sciences they will ask
you kind of problem questions based on
your a level syllabus but is kind of
applying your previous knowledge to new
situations I got the few on I ended a
few of those and I actually also went
through a cup of questions with a people
who was in the year above me and my
college who had got a place at Cambridge
I think the best prep thought I did was
literally just looking over all my
ailable notes and looking over my
personal statement because they can ask
you about your personal statement
interview they can tell the people have
rehearsed answers so whatever you do
don't learn your answers off by heart
your interviewers can tell so my
interviews were at 9 o'clock and 10
o'clock in the morning so I decided I
wanted to get to Cambridge the night
before my interview so I didn't want to
be
in a rush in the morning trying to get
to Cambridge on time because I live a
few hours away from Cambridge so my dad
actually drove me up to Cambridge and we
stayed in a hotel and near the college I
was being interviewed in there was the
option to stay at the college but they
wouldn't have been able to provide
accommodation for my dad as well and he
was driving me to Cambridge so he needs
us somewhere to stay
the whole idea of staying at the hotel
was the sight get a good night's rest
before my interview let me tell you what
happened next
it all started off well we went down for
a meal in the hotel restaurant I had a
burger and I took my flash cards with me
while we were eating as well so wasn't
chatting much to my dad but you know he
understood I was revising my a level
note so I was looking at my personal
statement you know so went back to the
room and I continued revising until some
party music started just outside the
window and it was like okay fine
cool sure that will last like what an
hour tops so you know I tried to work
through the noise but the part of me
that just kept going it just was all
evening this party music was blaring out
outside and it was like a field outside
our window in the big ten in it there
was obviously some sort of Christmas
party going on and I was just trying to
concentrate on my notes and stuff and
prepare my interview loud music and I
was like yo no got ready for bed because
it was bedtime eventually and then it
was like midnight and the party music
was still going on and I was like I need
to get to sleep I've got an interview
tomorrow morning so my dad run up
reception and was like do you know when
this party music is gonna stop like what
is this music and they're like oh it's
nothing to do with us they blamed it on
the local council and then we suddenly
thought well what if they have a spare
room in another part of the hotel so we
were on Mac and we were like do you have
another room anywhere else no like no
sorry were fully booked and then we rung
up um again cuz the music stopped my dad
was like can I have the number of the
environmental health noise officer on
the low
counsel to complain at which point they
were like oh actually we have a spare
room on the other side of the hotel so
you can move to that room right now so
suddenly a spare room came out of
nowhere
funny how that happened it was 1:00
o'clock at this point in the morning we
were in our bed clothes in our pajamas
and had to transfer a little of stuff
but it was worth it cuz once we got
there this new room was much quieter it
was in a different part of the hotel and
I did end up having a good night's sleep
got up the next morning were wandering
down to breakfast we passed the loads of
signs that were like it's the noise free
zone and we were thinking no it's not we
just looked up online out of interest
like who was hosting these Christmas
parties and it was the hotel itself the
hotel itself were advertising these
Christmas parties I know I know
we'll move on from this anyway my dad
drove me to Jesus call it at this point
I was feeling extremely sick I really
really really wanted this place at
Cambridge so I was putting a lot of
pressure on myself the interview we got
to the clergy my dad dropped me off he
was like well off you go then
so here I have and that of Jesus College
that I was given to be honest the whole
place seemed massive like now I've been
at the college for a year it does not
seem that big but at the time it was
just really big and daunting I got to
the old college bar where all the other
applicants were waiting and I was a team
of student helpers who were there to say
hi and told me to take a seat I took a
seat at one of the tables I looked
around and I thought oh God because
there were loads of people wearing suits
and really smart business dress and I
was like okay I haven't quite made that
much of an effort
I've actually got what I wore with me so
I'm just gonna show you know actually in
hindsight I actually thought this is
quite smart but just at the time I felt
really underdressed compared to everyone
else but I think it's really not
necessary to dress up I'd honestly say
if you're going for interviews just be
comfortable because all they care about
is your brain if your own jeans or a
suit it will not make any difference
on whether you're successful or not now
this is what I was comfy in my black
leather skirt which I love had woolly
tights on because it was freezing cold
winter and a blouse this lovely blouse I
tried to make small talk with some of
the other applicants who all seem
Pleasant or equally nervous and I was
speaking to one girl they were sitting
on the table she was applying for
engineering I think and we were like
discussing our hobbies and stuff and she
was like oh you have any hobbies then
you playing the instrument sauce like oh
yeah I play clarinet and saxophone and
she was like oh how funny I play
clarinet saxophone - I have grade 8 in
both of them and all these diplomas and
I was like whoa I just play on my local
youth band and then she was like to play
me sport and I was like well I used to
do netball when I was very young I
haven't played in years but I think I
might take it up when I'm at uni again
cuz I quite enjoyed it and she was like
oh my god how funny I'm on the team GB
netball team and I was like am i doing
hey these amazing people win she was
perfectly nice like really really nice
and she wasn't bragging or anything but
I had just found it close funny so I was
just like it's cool page don't be
intimidated
everyone here is obviously gunning for a
place I mean you know everyone means
business but you are as good as their
mom you are good at your subject and
then it came to the time where I had to
go to my interview my first interview at
9 o'clock
so when ups of student desk I was like
well and one of you take me to my
interview which they said yeah sure so
they took me down and I was seated on a
chair in an archway outside the office
where my interview was gonna be hold and
it was freezing
I didn't bring my coat I left it in the
bar so I was sitting on this chair
outside
shivering nervous for a good five
minutes I eventually got into my
interview shook my interviewers hands
that's like hi pleased to meet you I sat
down and I got hit with questions
it started off nice and easy they were
like what's your favourite acid and I
was like Noack acid then they just
started asking me
and getting me to draw curly arrows and
these organic molecules and I was
thinking what am i doing I don't know I
felt so slow at one point like I just
wasn't asking what the interviewer was
wanting me to get and she was like oh
why don't you do this and I was like oh
yeah and oh yeah so I felt like I hadn't
got off to the best start and then I got
asked a question on physics I can't even
remember much about these it's such a
blur but it was like calculating
resistance of combinations and potential
difference between different points in a
circuit again I felt like I was very
slow but I think maybe everyone feels
that way because interviews are supposed
to be challenging so they're always
going to push you as far as they
possibly can after much prompting I
eventually like reach the point where
the interviewers were like okay and then
they gave me like some sort of 3d object
that I had to apply what I've just been
doing with them on paper too and then I
was like oh and I got it first time
maybe maybe that shows unteachable
because they like people who can like
learn from them they don't well people
who can't be taught and you can't change
their ideas you have to have quite open
mindset like if you make a suggestion
about a way to solve a question it's not
quite right they want used to be able to
like change track if they like kind of
suggests otherwise so you don't want to
be like fixed on one idea I think the
thing is in these interviews it's just
think out loud and not go quiet like
there was a time where I went quiet for
good 30 seconds and did not say anything
and they were like Paige what you're
thinking and I was like hahaha sorry
forgot to talk out loud wasn't like I
totally got complete mind blank so
Yarrow's nerve-racking and I did feel
like a bit stupid at times but obviously
they're gonna push you like what was I
expecting but I came out that interview
like oh my god that was absolutely awful
I don't think that could have got worse
but it was like right got to get ready
for a second interview now I had to find
my own way back to the college bar and
then I sat down again and I was chatting
to the same girls before cuz this poor
girl had had like five hours or
something between her interviews to way
around so I was lucky when I only hadn't
between my interviews oh and the other
thing was though the really big science
on all the tables like you must not
discuss your interviews at all for
obvious reason it's like giving people
unfair advantages you're not to discuss
interviews but I sat down this girl was
like oh my god I just forgot my suvat
equations and my interview and she was
interviewing for a different subject but
I was like oh my god don't speak to me
we must not discuss interviews I was
looking behind me like oh my god I'm
gonna be kicked out that's it for me so
I was like yeah mMmmm let's stop talking
right now but yeah this girl has she not
seen the sign like rebellious right
there but anyway I like how to psych
myself off my second interview and then
it was time I was like right oh we go so
I've got the student help her again to
take me to my second interview location
that was a piece of graph paper on the
table I was thinking oh no it's graph
work and sure enough they were like draw
pluck this graph for us and then I got
asked questions and it was like more
graph sketching I had a second question
which was on vectors and it was a boat
crossing the river and problems to do
with that and I actually felt this
interview went much better than the
first one
I don't know whether it's just because
my interviewers were more like
encouraging or whether I actually was
doing better I'm not sure but it just
felt to me like this interview went
better than my first one when I got
something right or when I said something
good they're like yes not like oh you're
please for me too I'm pleased I got
there too
yeah I thought my second interview was
okay I'm talking relatively here though
like I felt like both went absolutely
awful at the time but I thought my
second one went better than my first one
oh there was a funny moment though
they'd asked a question my topic and I
was like completely blank and I was
giving them suggestions and I could they
almost chuckled some of my suggestions
so they were that laughable and they
were like how do you studied this topic
very level and I was like yeah I just
don't know my stuff but if you haven't
studied your topic at a level let them
know because there might sometimes be an
instance where your school might not
have covered that topic yet and there
might
Jim you have so let them know I didn't
get asked anything about my personal
statement in either of my interviews but
I know other people did
so yeah just know your personal
statement inside out
like be prepared to answer questions on
it because I know the humanities it's
almost guaranteed that you're gonna have
to answer questions about stuff you've
written about in your personal statement
and even the sciences I know people who
did get asked about it I just clearly
didn't write anything of interest that
they want to tell us coming about by the
second interview I had actually got into
the swing of the whole interview thing
as well I felt more comfortable and
actually how often do you get the
opportunity to sit and discuss your
subject with like these top academics
like it's not that often it was just
quite an exciting experience really and
I did actually quite enjoy it so yeah
eventually my segment - you ended so
that was my 40 minutes worth of
interviews done and I was free to go it
so I put back to the bar grab my coat I
said goodbye to the friends I made at
the bar and wish them luck
left college and my dad picked me up
outside the college I got in the car and
I was like oh my god that was horrific
so I told my dad like about both of my
interviews in great detail like I tell
very long stories as you can probably
tell fright now I told him all the
questions and literally everything went
on and then he was like well it doesn't
sound that bad it sounds like you've
shown your teacher board that you've
actually grasped the concepts once
they've prompted you and I was like yeah
but they had to prompt me so much I was
like I've done my best and that's all I
can do and actually it was a really good
experience and I'm glad I've done it
when I went back to my sixth form like
some of my teachers asked me how it went
and I've really talked myself down I was
like they were all for like terrible and
I literally knew nothing and then
meanwhile there were other people at my
college who had just come back from
interviews Oxbridge and they were going
oh yeah the interviews went really
really well and I smashed them and I was
just there like oh great and then the
offers come a little a month later and I
got an offer
and some of the people who are really
confident did not get an offer so what
does that tell you about how you can
judge how well your interviews go you
can literally everyone finds the
waterfall and if you found them good
you're just you're just weird so yeah
that is the story of my interview
experience I hope you've enjoyed it and
if you do have an interview this year
best of luck
please do like and subscribe I would
really appreciate it and hit the
notification valve so you are notified
when I next upload and yeah I will see
you soon with another video bye
[Music]